ES operating system
http://code.google.com/p/es-operating-system/
Copyright 2010-2012 Esrille Inc.
Copyright 2008-2010 Google Inc.
Copyright 2006, 2007 Nintendo Co., Ltd.

This product includes software developed at Esrille Inc. Portions of this
software were developed at Google Inc., and Nintendo Co., Ltd.

This product includes software developed by the following contributors:
    Aron Homberg
    Huei-Horng Yo

This product includes software developed by the following students
participated in the Google Summer of Code 2009 for ES operating system:
    Mahanth Gowda
    Kala Kuo
    Peng Zhou
    Swaroop Nunna

This product includes software developed by the following students
participated in the Google Summer of Code 2008 for ES operating system:
    João Diogo Taveira Araújo
    Kenichi Ishibashi
    Santosh G Vattam
    Chis Dan Ionut

This product includes the IDL definitions published by World Wide Web
Consortium under the W3C Software Copyright Notice and License:
    http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231

This software contains security software derived from the RSA Data Security
Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm.
    http://www.rsa.com/

Boost C++ Libraries are used in addition to the C++ standard library. Boost
C++ Libraries is released under the Boost license. The original software is
available from
    http://www.boost.org/
    
Cairo is used for the 2D graphics. Cairo is free software and is available
to be redistributed and/or modified under the terms of either LGPL 2.1 or
MPL 1.1. The original software is available from
    http://cairographics.org/

The Expat XML Parser is used as an XML parser for fontconfig. Expat is
released under the MIT license. The original software is available from
    http://expat.sourceforge.net/

Fontconfig is used for font customization and configuration. Fontconfig is
distributed under the terms of "Historical Permission Notice and Disclaimer".
The original software is available from
    http://fontconfig.org/

freeglut is used as a graphics backend for the es web browser. freeglut is
released under the X-Consortium license. The original software is available
from
    http://freeglut.sourceforge.net/
    
FreeType 2 is used as a software font engine. FreeType 2 is released under
two open-source licenses: their own BSD-like FreeType License and the GPL.
The original software is available from
    http://www.freetype.org/

GIFLIB is used for processing GIFs. GIFLIB is released under an X
Consortium-like open-source license. The original software is available
from
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/giflib/
    
ICU is used for Unicode and globalization support. ICU is released under
ICU License. The original software is available from
    http://icu-project.org/ 
    
Libjpeg is used for reading and writing JPEG image files. The original
software is available from
    http://libjpeg.sourceforge.net/
    
libpng is used for PNG support in Cairo. libpng is the official PNG
reference library and is available under the libpng license. The original
software is available from
    http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/libpng.html

Newlib is used for the standard C library. Newlib is covered by several
licenses, please read the code of each particular package in the source 
distribution for copyright information. The original software is available
from
    http://sources.redhat.com/newlib/

The Perl Compatible Regular Expressions (PCRE) library is used for the
regular expression support. PCRE is distributed under the terms of the BSD
license. The original software is available from
    http://www.pcre.org/

SpiderMonkey may be used as a JavaScript engine for the es web browser.
SpiderMonkey is available under MPL/GPL/LGPL tri-license. The original
software is available from
    https://developer.mozilla.org/en/SpiderMonkey

V8 may be used as a JavaScript engine for the es web browser. V8 is 
available under the new BSD license. The original software is available 
from
    http://code.google.com/p/v8/

zlib is a compression library used by libpng. zlib is available under zlib
license. The original software is available from
    http://www.zlib.net/
